INGREDIENTS

For Dashi (makes scant 4 cups)
	-4 cups water
	-1 piece kombu (dried kelp) (⅓ oz, 10 g; 4" x 4" or 10 x 10 cm)
	-1 cup katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes) (packed; I used loose 3 cups in the video for strong dashi flavor)

For One (200-240 ml) Bowl of Miso Soup
	-1 cup dashi (Japanese soup stock; click to learn more)
	-1 Tbsp miso (18 g)
	-Ingredients of your choice (Please read the blog post)
	-green onion/scallion (finely chopped)

MEATHOD

To Make Dashi (Can be Made in Advance):

	1.Clean the kombu with a damp towel and soak the kombu in water for 30 minutes or overnight (preferred). 
	NEVER wash kombu and do not remove the white substance -that’s umami! These days it's pretty clean, so you can skip this process. 
	Just make sure there are no dirty particles.

	2.After 30 minutes (or overnight), the kombu is rehydrated. This liquid is called cold brew Kombu Dashi.
		
	3.Pour kombu dashi and kombu into a saucepan. SLOWLY bring to boil on medium-low heat so you can extract umami from kombu as much as possible. 
	Right before the stock is boiling (it gets slimy and yields a bitter taste if you leave it), remove the kombu. Now what you have is Kombu Dashi. 
	If you’re vegetarian/vegan, use this kombu dashi for your miso soup. 
	What to do with used kombu? You can reuse it to make Simmered Kombu or Homemade Furikake Rice Seasoning.

	4.If you're not vegetarian/vegan, add Katsuobushi and let it simmer for 30-60 seconds. Turn off the heat and let steep for 10 minutes.

	5.Strain over a fine-mesh sieve and now you have roughly 4 cups of Awase Dashi. You can store in the refrigerator for up to 3-5 days and in the freezer for up to 2 weeks. 
	Repurpose the used katsuobushi to make Homemade Furikake Rice Seasoning.

To make soup:

	STEP 1 - Add Dashi
	Here I demonstrate to make 2 cups/2 servings of miso soup. You can use the formula; 1 cup (200-240 ml) dashi + 1 Tbsp (18 g) miso = 1 serving miso soup. 
	If you add more ingredients/vegetables, the amount of soup will increase and you will also need more miso. Add 2 cups (480 ml) dashi in the saucepan.

	Are you in a hurry and no time to make dashi? You can use Dashi Packet or Dashi Powder to make instant dashi.

	STEP 2 - Add dense ingredients BEFORE bringing dashi to a boil
	If your miso soup doesn't include hard ingredients or clams, go to the next step. Add hard ingredients like root vegetables. 
	Once boiling, lower the heat and simmer until they become tender. If you're making Clam Miso Soup, add clams in cold brew kombu dashi. 
	Bring it to a gentle boil and once the shells are open, turn off the heat (do not overcook).  

	STEP 3- Add quick-cooking ingredients AFTER dashi is boiling
	If your miso soup doesn’t include these ingredients, bring dashi to a boil and go to next step. 
	AFTER dashi starts boiling, add in soft vegetables like leafy greens, mushrooms, deep-fried tofu pouch because they require less cooking time. At this point, keep the soup at a simmer and make sure it stays warm (not OVERBOILING).

	STEP 4 - Add miso
	Add a small amount of miso at a time (you can start with 2 Tbsp miso for 2 cups dashi). 
	Put miso inside a ladle and slowly add dashi into the ladle to dissolve miso completely. You can buy a miso muddler or a fine-mesh miso 
	strainer which helps you dissolve miso faster. If you accidentally added too much miso, dilute the miso soup with dashi (or water). 
	NEVER OVERBOIL miso soup because it loses nutrients, flavors, and fragrance.

	STEP 5 - Add tofu
	Add tofu AFTER miso is completely dissolved because you might break the tofu when mixing in miso. 
	If you add chilled tofu from the refrigerator, miso soup would get cooler. Reheat miso soup until it is just hot, but NOT BOIL.

	STEP 6 - Add wakame & green onions
	Add rehydrated wakame (seaweed). I recommend re-hydrating dried wakame in a separate bowl of water to get rid of saltiness, 
	instead of re-hydrating inside miso soup. Add ingredients that do not require cooking such as chopped green onions, mitsuba, yuzu, 
	and blanched spinach right before serving to keep the fresh fragrance and color.

	To Serve:
	Serve immediately. Place on the right side of the table setting (Read on Ichiju Sansai, or 1 soup 3 dishes; see the picture).

